# Planetside Battle Simulator 3D

Planetside Battle Simulator is a program built in Unity that aims to  simulate the battle flow of Planetside battles. The goal is to be able  to learn how the flow of battle changes based on different base designs  and use that information to determine what makes a well-designed base  that can handle large populations.

# How To Use

1. Download the Unity game engine from https://unity3d.com and install it
2. Download Planetside Battle Simulator by clicking on the green "Code" button then "Download ZIP"
3. Save the ZIP somewhere on your computer then extract it
4. There's going to be 2 folders named "planetside_battle_simulator_3d-main", one of them inside the first one you extracted. Make sure when you are importing the project into Unity that you import the correct one (the one inside the first one).o
5. Open Unity (make sure it's Unity and not Unity Hub), in the Projects tab, click "Add". Navigate to the correct folder and import it (the correct folder mentioned in step 4).
6. There's 2 main modes in Unity: Edit Mode and Play Mode. Edit Mode is for creating the game and Play Mode is for testing it. If you want to add your own stuff, make changes, create new maps, etc. you will be using Edit Mode. You can try it using Play Mode where performance is a bit worse and it's not fullscreen or you can build the game for better performance and fullscreen.
7. To use Play Mode in Unity, first the game is divided into what are called Scenes, each scene is like a different level, each map will be its own scene and the main menu is its own scene. Go to the "Scenes" folder and double click to load the "TestMap1" scene. Then, in the game preview area there's 3 tabs at the top labelled "Scene", "Game", and "Asset Store". Go to the "Game" tab. Right under the newly opened game tab, there should be a dropdown that says "Free Aspect", click on it and choose "Full HD (1920x1080)" to change the resolution because otherwise the menus aren't scaled the best. To the right of the resolution dropdown click the "Maximize On Play" button to maximize the screensize when you press Play. Now press the Play symbol at the top middle to play the game.
8. To build the game for better performance and fullscreen mode go to File > Build Settings and then click Build. Select a folder to save the resulting files. After it's finished building, go to the folder and run the .exe file that was created.

# How To Make a Map

1. Go to the "Scenes" folder, copy the "TestMap1" scene and paste it to duplicate it. Rename it to whatever you want to call the map. Double click it to load the new scene.
2. In the object list (the panel on the left) delete the old map which is the object called "TestMap1" in blue letters.
3. Make your map (obviously you will need some prior knowledge to make a map)
4. If you want a simple map, you can first right click in the area where the objects are listed, press "Create Empty" to create an empty object. Rename this to the name of your map. This doesn't do anything just keeps all the elements of the map neatly organized under this one empty object so that the list of objects is not cluttered.
5. Right click on the newly created Empty Object that will hold the actual objects in the map, and choose "3D Object > Plane" to create a flat plane to use as the floor. The plane should be nested under the Empty Object you created as its child, if not click and drag the plane into the empty object inside the list of objects panel. Click on the Plane, in the right side panel of Unity you see its properties show up. At the very top there's the "Transform" component which specifies its location and size. Change its position to be x = 0, y = 0, z = 0 this brings it to the center of the world. Then change the x and z scale to make it as big as you like. Changing the y scale won't do anything since it's a plane and it has no thickness.
6. To add walls and other walkable floors with actual thickness, you can use the pre-made ones I made under the "Prefabs" folder. Go to that folder and drag in as many "Floor" and "Wall" objects as you'd like. Move, rotate, and resize them using the Transform component like you did for the plane earlier or using hotkeys (W to move, E to rotate, R to scale as long as you have the object selected)
7. Also under the "Prefabs" folder, drag in and place as many "CapturePoint" objects as you'd like wherever you want as long as soldiers are able to reach it.
8. Soldiers use a built-in feature in Unity called a NavMesh (navigation mesh) to be able to move around and find their way around the map. This is like a carpet that's laid out over all the parts of the map where you want soldiers to be able to move to. Soldiers can only move on top of this "carpet" and can never reach areas where this NavMesh does not cover.
9. This NavMesh must be generated before pressing Play and must be re-generated each time you make a change to the map. Otherwise you might find soldiers are walking through certain walls because the NavMesh hasn't been re-generated and overlaps with the newly added wall.
10. Go to Window > AI > Navigation. This opens the NavMesh settings. Keeping the "Objects" tab open, click on each floor, wall, other object you added to your map and make sure the "Navigation Static" checkbox is checked for them. This tells Unity that the object will not move during the runtime of the game and Unity will generate the NavMesh around it. If you want the object to be an obstacle like a wall, then change the "Navigation Area" dropdown value to "Not Walkable". If you want the object (like your floors would be a good start) to be walkable then leave "Navigation Area" on "Walkable".
11. After finishing all your objects, if your map is ready, switch to the "Bake" tab of the NavMesh menu and press "Bake" located at the bottom. In your preview display (switch to the "Scene" tab if you're not in it already) , you should see the created NavMesh as long as the Navigation menu is open. There will be blue areas overlaid on your map, these areas are walkable.
12. The map is ready. Test it in Play Mode or build the game and run the .exe.
13. For imported meshes, the object needs to have the "Static" checkbox enabled, and then a Mesh Collider component added to it for it to work.
